RHIDP-1993: Update procedure for deploying RHDH on OCP using the Operator (#186)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: installation/proc-install-rhdh-ocp-operator.adoc

[id="proc-install-rhdh-ocp-operator_{context}"]
= Deploying {product} on {ocp-short} using the Operator

As a developer, you can deploy a {product} instance on {ocp-short} by using the *Developer* perspective in the web console.

.Prerequisites

* A cluster administrator has installed the {product} Operator. For more information, see xref:proc-install-operator_admin-rhdh[Installing the {product} Operator].

.Procedure

> . From the *Developer* perspective on the {ocp-short} web console, click *+Add*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a project in {ocp-short} for your {product} instance, or select an existing project.
```

> . Create a project in {ocp-short} for your {product} instance, or select an existing project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the *Developer* perspective on the {ocp-short} web console, click *+Add*.
```

+
[TIP]
====
For more information about creating a project in {ocp-short}, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.15/applications/projects/working-with-projects.html#creating-a-project-using-the-web-console_projects[Creating a project by using the web console] in the {ocp-brand-name} documentation.

> ====

Reviewer 2: Creating a project must happen before "click *+Add*".

Reviewer: true but if you don't have one you'll be prompted.

Author: ![image](https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh/assets/40172997/fc679d5b-d21a-40d0-8b39-caed6015b833)

![image](https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh/assets/40172997/156276e7-8304-46a4-b3ab-e627078f4d7b)

This actually isn't true - you can click +Add and then select or create a project, which IMHO is actually a nicer workflow

Author: I changed it back regardless, but I disagree that this is the best order of steps. We can revisit another time, though.

. From the *Developer Catalog* panel, click *Operator Backed*.

> . In the *Filter by keyword* box, enter _{product-short}_ and click the *{product}* card.

Reviewer 2: We might need a comma:

```suggestion
. In the *Filter by keyword* box, enter _{product-short}_, and click the *{product}* card.
```

Author: I don't really think a comma is necessary here tbh

. Click *Create*.

> . Optionally, configure the {product-short} instance with non-default settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optionally, configure the {product-short} instance with any custom settings.
```

. On the *Create Backstage* page, click *Create*

> . From the *Topology* tab, click the *Open URL* icon on the {product-short} pod to start using the {product} platform.

Reviewer 2: Consider isolating this last step as a verification step.

[id="proc-install-rhdh-ocp-operator_{context}"]
= Deploying {product} on {ocp-short} using the Operator

As a developer, you can deploy a {product} instance on {ocp-short} by using the *Developer* perspective in the web console.

.Prerequisites

* A cluster administrator has installed the {product} Operator. For more information, see xref:proc-install-operator_admin-rhdh[Installing the {product} Operator].

.Procedure

. Create a project in {ocp-short} for your {product} instance, or select an existing project.
+
[TIP]
====
For more information about creating a project in {ocp-short}, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.15/applications/projects/working-with-projects.html#creating-a-project-using-the-web-console_projects[Creating a project by using the web console] in the {ocp-brand-name} documentation.
====

> . From the *Developer* perspective on the {ocp-short} web console, click *+Add*.

Reviewer 2: We might want to use consistent wording to refer here to the *+Add*  tab, and later to the *Topology* tab.

![03- in the project, in the +Add tab Screenshot_+Add · Red Hat OpenShift — Mozilla Firefox_20240419_103959](https://github.com/redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh/assets/243761/0981286f-eb04-4556-ad8d-63e3798d395b)

Reviewer 2: (Clarity nitpick, sorry)

Author: I think it might make more sense to try to make our docs more consistent with the terms used in the core OCP docs, where it's [generally "**+Add** page" AFAIK](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.14/applications/projects/working-with-projects.html#adding-to-a-project_projects). "Tab" means something specific in the console because there are pages that have actual tabs ([example](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.14/applications/odc-monitoring-project-and-application-metrics-using-developer-perspective.html#odc-monitoring-your-project-metrics_monitoring-project-and-application-metrics-using-developer-perspective)).

I think I'll leave this as is for now and we can discuss it with the team and decide on some guidelines to update all the instances going forward?

> . From the *Developer Catalog* panel, click *Operator Backed*.

Reviewer 2: I am wondering if it would make sense to squeeze this step with the previous.

Something like:

From the *+Add* tab in the {ocp-short} web console *Developer* perspective, in the *Developer Catalog* panel, click *Operator Backed*.

Author: I'd prefer to leave this as is for now since this step wasn't part of the scope of the original PR/Jira.

> . In the *Filter by keyword* box, enter _{product-short}_ and click the *{product}* card.

Reviewer 2: The search step is helpful only when you have many operator installed. I am wondering if we could be more generic, like:

```suggestion
. In the *Operator Backed* catalog, click the *{product}* card.
```

(And assume the UI is sufficiently explicit for the user to  use the search feature when desired)

. Click *Create*.

> . Optionally, configure the {product-short} instance with custom settings.

Reviewer 2: To be consistent with the customization method that we promote later, we might want to omit this step.

Reviewer: True, and unlike the helm install, configuration CAN be done later without negative impact (AFAIK). 

With Helm if you don't set the correct cluster router base URL, you won't be able to open the RHDH application.

Author: Personally, I think that it would make more sense to document how to configure this, in full, here.
If I was a user reading our docs / installing the Operator, I would not assume that I would need to go and look at other documentation somewhere else later to finish configuring my setup. I would want to assume that everything I need to configure the Operator will be in one place.

I also think it's worth asking - it might be fine to change the config later without impact, but why should users expect a different workflow for Helm charts vs Operator installs? What happens if they create a Backstage instance without completing the additional configuration steps, and then configure it - are those instances updated to the new config, or are they negatively affected?

I would like to leave this as is for now, and discuss it with the team, since I think there is some work ongoing to create customer journeys for the installation procedure anyway atm. I think at the very least, we should indicate if we're taking this step out that you can finish this configuration later.

Reviewer: can't we link from this section to the section on configuring the deployment? eg., for enabling dynamic plugins?

Reviewer 3: A link to configuring the deployment might be nice. Also referring to `custom configuration` instead of `custom settings` will align with the remainder of the documentation.

> . On the *Create Backstage* page, click *Create*

Reviewer 2: I am wondering if we could squeeze the validation steps with something like:

... click the *{product}* card, and validate the confirmation screens.

Author: I don't think it makes sense to do that, since clicking Create is still a part of the procedure, not the validation.

[id="proc-install-rhdh-ocp-operator_{context}"]
= Deploying {product} on {ocp-short} using the Operator

> As a developer, you can deploy a {product} instance on {ocp-short} by using the *Developer* perspective in the web console.

Reviewer 4: I would still mention that this procedure is specific to the Operator to differentiate it from the Helm chart procedure and to orient the user so they know they are in the right place. I know it's in the title, but I also think it should be in the intro paragraph.

.Prerequisites

* A cluster administrator has installed the {product} Operator. For more information, see xref:proc-install-operator_admin-rhdh[Installing the {product} Operator].

.Procedure

. Create a project in {ocp-short} for your {product} instance, or select an existing project.
+
[TIP]
====
For more information about creating a project in {ocp-short}, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.15/applications/projects/working-with-projects.html#creating-a-project-using-the-web-console_projects[Creating a project by using the web console] in the {ocp-brand-name} documentation.
====
. From the *Developer* perspective on the {ocp-short} web console, click *+Add*.
. From the *Developer Catalog* panel, click *Operator Backed*.
. In the *Filter by keyword* box, enter _{product-short}_ and click the *{product}* card.
. Click *Create*.

> . Optional. Add <<Configuring the {product-short} Custom Resource, custom configurations>> for the {product} instance.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Optional: Add <<Configuring the {product-short} Custom Resource, custom configurations>> for the {product} instance.
```
Per [IBM style guidance](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=format-procedures#indicating-optional-and-conditional-steps)

Author: lol I knew this and still somehow made the typo, thanks
